Effnet bench (#205)
triton-inference-server/dali_backend: benchmarks/BM_efficientnet/README.md

# Classification end-to-end benchmark

## Overview
This is a benchmark that presents end-to-end classification use-case. Composing parts of this
benchmark are:
1. GPU-powered data preprocessing using DALI,
2. Image classification using EfficientNet,
3. Inference deployment for Triton Inference Server.

## How to run the benchmark?
Running the benchmark requires three steps:
1. Setup
2. Run
3. (optional) Tuning

> In the `Setup` step, the script downloads the EfficientNet model, converts it to TensorRT format

Author: Done

and puts together a model repository and all the configuration files necessary for
Triton Inference Server. It needs to be run only once for a given rig.

> In the `Run` step the script runs a Triton's `perf_analyzer` to benchmark the use-case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `Run` step, the script runs a Triton's `perf_analyzer` to benchmark the use-case.
```

> There are handful of parameters that can be tuned for the benchmark, you'd most probably

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a handful of parameters that can be tuned for the benchmark, you'd most probably
```

like to turn these nobs in the `Tuning` step.

Lastly, the `Tuning` step involves polishing the use-case parameters to find the optimal setup
for a given hardware configuration. Details about tuning the solution are presented
in the relevant section below.

### Setup + run
Running both `Setup` and `Run` is required the first time the benchmark is conducted on a given rig.

> Please you the following command and provide the maximum batch size you expect (please refer to
> the section below for more information on the max batch size):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please use the following command and provide the maximal expected batch size (please refer to
the section below for more information on the max batch size):
```

```bash
$ cd <dali_backend-repo-path>/benchmarks/BM_efficientnet
$ bash benchmark.sh do_setup MAX_BATCH_SIZE

> e.g.

Author: Done

$ cd /home/myuser/Triton/dali_backend/benchmarks/BM_efficientnet
$ bash benchmark.sh do_setup 32
```

### Run

> Running the benchmark without the `Setup` step is possible with the command below. Please note

Author: Not precisely. The point of the benchmark is to be one-click. So setup and run needs to happen with one command. I'll rephrase the sentence.

that the script will assume that the benchmark is properly initialized. If not, unpredictable
things may happen. You've been warned.
```bash
$ cd <dali_backend-repo-path>/benchmarks/BM_efficientnet
$ bash benchmark.sh
```

### Factory reset
Factory resetting benchmark might come in handy if an error occurred during the `Setup` step.
To reset the benchmark, please run:
```bash
$ cd <dali_backend-repo-path>/benchmarks/BM_efficientnet
$ bash reset_benchmark.sh 
```

## Tuning the inference
Since this benchmark is targeted into DALI's usage in inference, we'll be focusing on tuning DALI
rather than the EfficientNet model. For the information about the latter, please consult [Model Navigator documentation](https://triton-inference-server.github.io/model_navigator/0.7.1/).

To obtain optimal performance numbers for your given hardware configuration, the scenario has
to be tuned. DALI provides handful of parameters to manipulate. Here we are presenting details
about where these parameters can be found. More information about the parameters themselves
may be found in the [DALI documentation](https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/dali/user-guide/docs/index.html).

> You may tune the benchmark in the following places:

Reviewer 2: I read only the readme file, but would it make sense to have those parameter adjustable from some ./run_benchmark.py/sh file instead of having to dig through all the configs. Or we want to teach the user into looking into those spots?

Author: It would not make much sense, since some of these parameters are set up in setup ;) For the sake of making these scripts easier, I'm assuming user will know how to look there. If he's about to deploy his solution to Triton, he would need to learn it anyway.

1. `run-benchmark.sh` script. Using `BATCH_SIZES` and `CONCURRENCY_RANGE` variables you can set
the values that will be used for the benchmarking.
2. `dali.py` file. This is the file with DALI model definition. As mentioned earlier, DALI provides
handful on parameters (both on the level of pipeline definition and particular operators). It is

> out of scope of this document to explain thoroughly how to tune DALI Pipeline. In the EfficientNet

Reviewer 2: > we'll be focusing on tuning DALI

> It is out of scope of this document to explain thoroughly how to tune DALI Pipeline

Which one is it?

Author: Good point 😅 Rephrased

use case, one of the tuning parameters is the `hw_decoder_load` inside the Pipeline definition.
3. Setup command (In the [Setup + run]() section above). There you can set the max batch size used
for inference. The general rule of setting this value for the purposes of this benchmark
is that the batch size should be as big as possible for your hardware setup.
4. `config.pbtxt` files. [DALI Backend documentation](https://github.com/triton-inference-server/dali_backend/blob/main/docs/config.md)
provides information about the Model Configuration typical for DALI. Particularly, the nob to tune
in the `config.pbtxt` file is the `num_threads` parameter, which denotes number of CPU threads used
by DALI. Also, regular Triton's tuning may be leveraged here, such as configuring model

> instances per device (CPU/GPU).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instances per device (CPU/GPU), or tuning the dynamic_batching parameters.
```

like to turn these nobs in the `Tuning` step.

Lastly, the `Tuning` step involves polishing the use-case parameters to find the optimal setup
for a given hardware configuration. Details about tuning the solution are presented
in the relevant section below.

### Setup + run
Running both `Setup` and `Run` is required the first time the benchmark is conducted on a given rig.
Please use the following command and provide the maximal expected batch size (please refer to
the section below for more information on the max batch size):
```bash
$ cd <dali_backend-repo-path>/benchmarks/BM_efficientnet
$ bash benchmark.sh do_setup MAX_BATCH_SIZE
```
For example:
```bash
$ cd /home/myuser/Triton/dali_backend/benchmarks/BM_efficientnet
$ bash benchmark.sh do_setup 32
```

### Run
If you performed the `Setup` step before, it is possible to save some time and run only
the `Run` step. You can do it with the command below. Please note, that if the benchmark has
not been initialized properly, unpredictable things may happen. You've been warned.
```bash
$ cd <dali_backend-repo-path>/benchmarks/BM_efficientnet
$ bash benchmark.sh
```

> ### Factory reset
> Factory resetting benchmark might come in handy if an error occurred during the `Setup` step.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Cleaning the artifacts
Cleaning the artifacts created by the setup and benchmark itself might come in handy if an error occurred during the `Setup` step.
```
